Good day, brothers and sisters.
No doubt you have been enjoying the music video presentations
that have been prepared for this convention.
Now it's time to enjoy the next one.
As you watch it,
notice the joy that comes from a life spent in Jehovah's service.
Let us now stand and sing a song that reflects the joy we find when we preach and teach with zeal.
Please stand and sing song number 76 entitled, How Does It Make You Feel?
That song number 76. Please be seated.
Jehovah's people are preaching the good news, Earthwide, and we rejoice to see many responding favorably.
What can we learn from the efforts of our brothers around the world?
How can we help honest hearted ones to make progress?
The following video features experiences from six different regions.
Brother Mark Numer, I help her to the teaching committee, will be our host.
Let's now join Brother Numer and learn how our brothers are experiencing disciple making joy.
If you were asked to think of two men in the first century who are zealous disciple makers, who would come to your mind,
you may be thinking of Paul and Barnabas.
Together, they traveled extensively preaching the good news and helping many to learn the wonderful truth about Jehovah.
This work brought joy not only to them, but others too.
Acts 15-3 states, So after being escorted part way by the congregation,
these men continued on through both Phoenicia and Samaria relating in detail the conversion of people of the nations
and bringing great joy to all the brothers.
Their shared experiences were a great source of joy to the brotherhood.
They all felt encouraged and united as one spiritual family.
So too today, we have many like Paul and Barnabas, who are actively working to find honest hearted ones.
Let's quickly review the numbers and see what our spiritual families United efforts have accomplished during the 2019 service here.
The good news was preached in 240 lands.
The average number of publishers each month reached over 8.4 million.
More than 2 billion hours were spent in the field.
Also, you'll be pleased to know that the number baptized surpassed 300,000 for the first time in 20 years.
That's on average 5,843 people symbolizing their dedication to Jehovah every weekend.
And there's great potential for millions more to embrace the truth.
On average, 9.6 million Bible studies were conducted each month and almost 21 million attended the memorial.
We praise Jehovah for this growth and thank you for your share in this great increase.
The governing body receives some beautiful experiences and reports this past service here.
And they wanted to share that joy with all of you now.
Would you like to hear some of these reports and meet some of our hard working brothers and sisters?
Well then, let's go.
We'll meet publishers from six regions of the earth and hearing their own words, the effect that the disciple making work has on them.
Here's a quick peek. We'll see some of their unique challenges.
When it rains, there is so much mud everywhere. We need to remove our shoes and hold them in our hands.
We'll meet ones who made personal sacrifices.
When I turned 60 and retired, my wife and I decided to serve where the need is greater.
This brother can see that he cannot walk. And me, I can walk but cannot see.
We'll see the impact the truth can have on new ones.
It may be happy yet, can I really dare believe that?
I was actually sort of in shock and really put a spotlight on who I really was.
What bad habits did some have at first? What pressures did they face? And how did they overcome that?
One day she asked her to choose between family and Jehovah.
Hopefully, that wets your appetite for what's to come.
Now, as we take you around the world, enjoy the stories of your brothers and sisters and watch for clues to what contributed to their joy.
Let's begin with Africa.
Its stretches from the Mediterranean past the Golden Sahara through mountains and savannas to the Cape of Good Hope.
This continent is known for the enormous diversity and richness of its wildlife, Africa's population.
About 1.3 billion people is growing faster than any other part of the world.
More than 1,500 languages are spoken here.
The first Christian from Africa, the Ethiopian Unic, mentioned at Acts chapter 8,
likely brought the good news back with him to Ethiopia when he returned home.
Today, over 1.7 million publishers are making disciples throughout this vast continent.
Let's visit our brothers and sisters in Africa's most populous country, Nigeria.
More than 360,000 publishers are sharing the good news with Nigeria's over 200 million people.
The territory is highly diverse, more than 500 languages and 250 ethnic groups.
It's so encouraging to see the response to the good news.
Some 870,000 Bible studies are being conducted and on average 273 are baptized each week.
This is the Utankong congregation in Benwe State.
Here, 51 publishers and 4 regular pioneers are having good results despite a challenging territory.
Pritching in the Utankong territory is enjoyable. It is just that it is accompanied by some problems.
One is that the territories are very far apart and two, the roads are not good.
It takes us three hours to get to some territories. When it rains, there is so much mud everywhere.
We need to remove our shoes and hold them in our hands.
Whether households as a churchgoer, Muslims or traditional healers, they listen.
Many even accept our invitation to attend the meetings despite the travel challenges.
So it makes us very happy to see that in spite of far territories, bedrooms, we see good results.
I'm enjoying my life now, but when I lost my sight, I thought it was all over.
As a carpenter, I wondered how I would be able to do my carpentry. The thought of it worried me so much.
But as I began to learn about Jehovah from the Bible, I came to realize that there was hope.
That negative thinking that my life was over disappeared from my mind.
So I am very happy now. I am joyful.
There is a brother named Joseph. This brother can see, but he cannot walk.
And me, I can walk, but cannot see. Our hold is wheelchair and push while he directs it.
This has helped us to meet many of our Bible students.
Before now, we were few that went out in the field as pioneers, but now we are many.
This shows that the example has helped other people, because when they see someone who cannot walk and someone who cannot see a pioneering,
they conclude that they can pioneer too. This is the experience of one of my relatives.
His name is Cletus. He was very kind to me.
He would hold my hand and assist me to the meetings at the Kingdom Hall.
When he got to the Kingdom Hall, he would leave for his church.
But as he noticed how I preached and attended meetings, the joy I radiated,
the way we treated other people and our knowledge of the Scriptures.
He was impressed and began asking many questions.
The answers he got were quite different from what he had learnt, what they told him in church.
They continued telling him, get out of there and that he should not talk to me again.
He studied the Bible, concluded his study and got baptized.
Now he serves as a ministerial servant.
Sometimes, they used to assign talks to both of us to handle as a symposium.
And this made me see Cletus as a spiritual brother in the organization and the congregation.
This gives me joy and makes me very happy.
When people notice our activities, they usually praise Jehovah and encourage us to do more.
Since they know that the work we do is not by our power, but it is Jehovah who empowers us.
It is true that I am blind, but I can see Jehovah.
I am helping other people see Jehovah's hand in our lives.
Even people are disabled, can bring praise to Jehovah.
I have nothing to do other than to be joyful and praise Jehovah for my life.
We share your joy, Brother Igbo.
Doesn't it touch our hearts to see Gabriel and Joseph helping each other in the pioneer work?
Their example encourages others to ask what prevents me from pioneering.
Perhaps we are moved to ask that question too.
And did you notice what spurred Cletus to action?
He observed the conduct of Gabriel and other witnesses in the congregation.
What do we learn?
That our Christian conduct often speaks louder than even the most eloquent words.
Now we go to the largest continent in the world, Asia.
Asia is home to three fifths of the world's people, including some 760,000 Jehovah's Witnesses.
The geography of Asia ranges from Tundra
to coral reefs, from Earth's tallest peak Mount Everest to its lowest land surface, the Dead Sea.
Asia's cultural diversity is greater than any other continent.
The two most populated countries in the world, China and India, are here in Asia.
Let's visit our brothers in India.
With a growing population of about 1.3 billion people, India is on track to become the world's most populous country within a decade.
Imagine the potential for growth in India.
With 90% of the population having not yet received a witness, our 50,000 brothers and sisters have plenty of work to do.
The good news is being preached in territory that includes mountain ranges, planes and plateaus, villages and some of the world's largest cities.
Hyderabad is in South Central India.
This is the Hyderabad RTC Cross Road congregation in the heart of the city.
Here, 94 publishers including 17 regular pioneers are conducting 95 Bible studies.
They were delighted to have 252 attend last year's memorial.
Let's meet Sungla.
His story actually begins in another part of India, where he learned the truth with the help of Alex and Annie Doss.
My wife and I serve in the Pandabha sign language group.
Currently, there are only three publishers, me, my wife and another brother who is deaf.
We have contact with our own 100 deaf ones in our territory.
Each week, 50 to 60 deaf ones attend the meetings.
When they come, they bring their deaf friends with them. They also bring their relatives.
We are so happy to see them come regularly for the meetings in spite of the opposition from their families, sometimes even severe opposition.
They are progressing well spiritually. We are really happy to see their spiritual advancement.
When I turned 60 and retired, my wife and I decided to serve where the need is greater.
To our surprise, we were asked to support the sign language field.
At that time, we did not have any experience in sign language.
Then, our circuit overseer asked us if we were ready to move to where the need is greater.
He asked if we would move to Latur, a city that was 521 miles from our home.
Once we reached a city, we were overjoyed to see the interest of the deaf ones.
So, we decided to stay there.
Not long after we arrived there, we met a priest, whose name is Sangram.
He was the leader of a deaf association, and he was short-tempered.
Since we wanted to meet him often, we invited him to our home to discuss the daily text.
He came regularly at 7 o'clock for daily text discussions.
When we moved here, we did not know how to sign very well.
Both my wife and I knew almost nothing.
But after we met Sangram and started to teach him the Bible,
we in turn started to learn sign language from him.
We were very happy. We were really, very happy.
As soon as we started studying the Bible with Sangram,
he made changes in his life in line with the Bible principles.
He changed his hairstyle.
He left the deaf association in which he was the leader.
And even his personality changed.
He stopped responding angrily to those who provoked him.
We are so happy about the Bible discussions we had with him,
because with this, his life changed completely.
Soon, he broke almost all of his bad habits.
However, he was still unable to stop his habit of chewing tobacco.
Now, since we loved him, we took him to a dentist and had his teeth cleaned.
After that visit to the dentist, he completely stopped using tobacco.
Within six months from starting the Bible study,
Sangram became a qualified publisher.
And after that, he continued to progress well.
Later, now has the sign language congregation.
My wife and I then moved to another group.
We are now serving in Pandapur.
When we meet our old studies in the conventions and see their progress,
we are overjoyed.
The very thought that Jehovah's extended us this privilege to serve him
makes us overwhelmed with happiness.
There are no words to express how we feel.
When Sangram showed us his big smile,
that a smile come to your face too,
that's how the truth affects us.
And don't we appreciate the sacrifices that Alex and Annie made
in order to serve where the need was greater?
They had to learn sign language and move far away from their home.
But how did it turn out?
Alex says, they are overwhelmed with happiness.
Imagine that. They were certainly rewarded for their sacrificing spirit.
We now move west to Europe.
Europe gave birth to the Greek and Roman empires,
the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.
With 160 culturally distinct groups,
Europe is immensely varied and densely populated.
Almost 1.6 million Jehovah's Witnesses
are actively making disciples on this continent.
In southeastern Europe, you'll find Romania,
a country of nearly 20 million people.
Today, over 39,000 publishers are conducting almost 22,000 Bible studies.
8 out of 10 people belong to the Romanian Orthodox Church,
the ratio of publishers to the population varies greatly.
From 1 to 4,000 in the southeast to 1 to 7 in Transylvania in the northwest.
Last year, special preaching campaigns were organized to reach those in unassigned territories.
As a result, 85% of these territories have been given a witness.
Here are the 112 publishers and four regular pioneers of the Gibo Centro Congregation.
They serve a territory that includes a small city,
rural areas and large communities of Hungarians and Roma.
Let's see what it's like to make disciples there.
One of the challenges we face in our town is that we have a small territory
compared to the number of brothers, a ratio of one publisher to about 40 inhabitants.
So we put great emphasis on preaching in the villages around Gibo.
Jehovah blessed our efforts and we have more Bible studies which make good progress.
When I was still in elementary school, not yet baptized myself,
I used to speak about Jehovah to one of my classmates.
Her name was Oana.
She was very interested and even asked many questions.
We were both 12 at that time.
A little while later, after I got baptized, Oana became my first Bible student.
I was able to show her how to prepare well for the study.
In the evening, we used to read the Bible together
and we even wrote down in a notebook our favourite Bible texts.
At the same time, by means of different study projects,
I tried to help us see Jehovah as a real person.
For example, we wrote down on a big sheet of paper
all of Jehovah's qualities and the way we could imitate them.
Oana made good progress, attended the meetings and even started to participate.
I was so happy to see how much joy Oana had in learning about the truth.
Not surprisingly, difficulties arose on the way.
Oana's mother was not happy at all that I was studying with her daughter.
She forbade her to study and one day she asked her to choose between family and Jehovah
and put her out of the house.
Oana was 16 years old.
I encouraged Oana with the scripture from Isaiah 41, verses 10 and 13,
which says that Jehovah is grasping our hand and that he will help us.
We talked a lot together and we prayed together.
And after only one week, Jehovah answered our prayers.
Oana's mother calmed down and not only allowed her to return home
but also to attend meetings and to continue studying together.
I was so happy.
On 21st of July 2018, Oana got baptized.
Now I can finally preach together with my spiritual sister.
Jehovah always gave me the joy I needed.
In fact, I can't find the words to describe the joy I experienced now.
Did you notice where and when Beatrice started talking to Oana about Jehovah?
In elementary school, what a wonderful reminder that you young ones can experience joy
by making school your personal territory.
If you haven't tried it already, look for someone with whom you can share the good news.
You may be surprised at the results.
Let's go next to North America.
Now this continent extends from tiny islands near the Arctic
to the isthmus of Panama in the south.
North America is home to almost 2.6 million Jehovah's Witnesses.
The United States is by far the most populous country in North America
with over 325 million people.
Here you can find metropolitan cities as well as vast areas that are sparsely populated.
This territory is cared for by more than 1.2 million publishers and over 180,000 pioneers.
Meet the brothers and sisters of the Juniata River, Pennsylvania German congregation
in Mifflin town, Pennsylvania.
As we'll see in the following report, their unique territory is rich with people
who sincerely respect God's word.
The challenges are territory being so vast.
Sometimes you may drive an hour and a half, two hours just to get to the territory.
One of my favorite joys is getting to use the Bible constantly in this field.
They respect the Bible. They all have one in their house.
Starting this language almost three years ago from a pregroup to now a congregation
with four groups in the area, you can see the growth and the excitement of everyone.
Honestly, I can say it's been the happiest time of my life since I started working in this field.
Out in service one day, just working door to door, I met a lady
and she accepted the greatest man book.
Eventually, Memorial season came around. I went and left an invitation with Jane.
We went back the day before the Memorial and were surprised when Jane said,
yes, we'd love to come.
So we talked about a Bible study and eventually Jerry agreed to having one as a family.
But there was a contrast from what I'd been taught.
So I was willing to dig for more knowledge to try and figure out what was going on here.
He read scripture Psalms about the earth and I said,
wow, yes, all the things I've pictured myself doing in heaven is the things I enjoy on earth.
And maybe happy yet, can I really dare believe that?
The more I studied about the Bible, looked up to scriptures, the more I realized
I never really knew a whole lot about the Bible.
I was actually sort of in shock and really put a spotlight on who I really was.
At one point, Ben and I went over to make a return visit.
We had planned what we wanted to do with the family and it just did not lend to that at all.
And we ended up playing cards instead.
We didn't get to share anything from the Bible.
The family was like, oh, it dawned on them. We're real people too.
In the Pennsylvania German culture, people teach pretty strongly obedience to parents to make God happy.
One day, Jerry lets me know that his dad wants to talk to me.
Although my dad meant it well, he tried to stop the study.
But the information that he was bringing to me about the witnesses is not what I saw.
What we were being taught was directly from my Bible I had in my house.
How could it be wrong?
You could tell they were just distraught as a family of what was going on.
They wanted to do the right thing but they could feel all the pressure to stop.
We eventually had to cut ties in order to continue spiritual growth.
After that, Jerry and Jane just progressed very fast.
They were making changes in their life and they got to really see the freedom that serving Jehovah gives you.
Seeing their joy grow was irreplaceable. It was fantastic.
We have gained a hundredfold what we could have ever lost.
And so as we share good news with individuals and as they make progress, we are very excited and happy.
I would love just everyone to have that opportunity to have that same joy.
What happened when Jerry and Jane read for themselves the truths contained in the Bible?
It deeply affected their thoughts and emotions and revealed who they really were on the inside.
As a result, they now joyfully served Jehovah along with their children.
Ben and Joanna used the Bible skillfully.
They let God's Word speak for itself.
And the joy this experience brought them is, as Ben said, irreplaceable, fantastic.
That kind of joy is contagious. We feel it too just watching them.
Next we go to Oceania.
This is the collective name for Australia and for the more than 10,000 islands in the Pacific Ocean
between Asia and the Americas.
Some of Oceania's islands are known as high islands because they were developed as volcanic eruptions built up land over time.
Low islands, such as the country of Kiribats, are made of coral and sometimes barely reach above sea level.
Over 100,000 Jehovah's Witnesses are hard at work in this beautiful territory.
Fiji is an archipelago of some 300 islands scattered over 3 million square kilometers or about 1 million square miles.
This territory is cared for by some 3,000 publishers and over 500 pioneers.
In the last service here, they conducted over 4,700 Bible studies.
These brothers and sisters are in the South-Suva English congregation.
Let's see what unique challenges our brothers face there.
Many, if not all, in our territory, know about God's Word, the Bible.
However, they are taught false teachings.
The challenge arises when customs and traditions conflict with Bible teachings.
As they study and they progress, they face opposition from their family and of course there's the social pressure that comes from their community.
Added to this is the materialistic goals that are put before them.
So all of this combined really poses a challenge with these ones progressing.
Despite these challenges, some of them eventually do study the Bible with us.
Some have become Jehovah's friends and made the truth their own.
So to be able to show these ones from God's Word, the Bible, that Jehovah is a God of love.
And to see their reaction, that in itself is a wonderful blessing.
I used to study with this young girl.
She wanted to make progress in the truth.
But in order for her to do that, she had to overcome these two biggest obstacles.
One was this career that she had and the other was the obstacle from her unbelieving family.
I really don't want to impose the truth on her.
So my goal was to help her understand what the Bible teaches, help her see the big picture and let her draw her own conclusion.
I try and be a good example to her by enjoying the ministry myself.
And helping her to understand that is I'm out in the ministry.
I know I'm working along with Jehovah.
Although she had a high paying job, she wasn't happy.
She was always stressed.
When she sees Jehovah's Witnesses, despite being out there in the ministry,
hot sunny day, rainy day, they're happy.
She knew and was convinced that she would be really happy if she put Jehovah first in her life.
So eventually she had to tell her mother-in-law that she had resigned from her employment.
So her mother-in-law says, and now you resigned?
So what you're going to do, you're going to go preaching?
And then she says, the decision that I've made is going to make me happy.
It's going to make Jehovah happy as well.
In seeing the big picture, she was able to make a stand for true worship and be on Jehovah's side of universal sovereignty.
I attended the Pioneer Service School with her.
You know what really made me happy?
Is seeing ones like her, being happy, and doing the same work in helping others come to serve Jehovah.
And knowing the fact that Jehovah had actually used me in helping others find the truth and serve Jehovah as well.
To some, Fiji may seem like paradise.
But as we learned, the people of that beautiful land face the same issues as people everywhere.
Stress, pressure filled jobs, and an uncertain future.
As Makareta's student learned, putting Jehovah first is the only guarantee for true lasting happiness.
Our final destination is South America.
South America is home to Earth's largest river, the Amazon, as well as the driest place, the Atacama Desert.
Animal life on this continent is rich and diverse.
Particularly its bird population.
With some 3,000 species of birds, South America is sometimes called the bird continent.
More than 400 million people live here, including over 1.7 million Jehovah's Witnesses.
There's tremendous language diversity in South America.
Let's visit Bolivia, a country of more than 11 million people, and a wide range of indigenous cultures.
Bolivia presents unique challenges to our about 28,000 brothers and sisters who live here.
Their territory includes the towering and east mountains in the west, and rainforests in the north.
The publishers endure weather that ranges from burning heat and tropical humidity to freezing winds.
To reach remote territories, they may have to cross rivers and drive for hours on poorly maintained mountain roads.
Sometimes just a few millimeters or inches from the precipice.
But how Jehovah's blessing their courageous efforts.
In the last service year alone, more than 42,000 Bible studies were conducted.
Here are the 35 publishers and eight regular pioneers of the Norte Quechua congregation.
To reach and seek out those who speak Quechua, the publishers travel long distances.
Sadly, many of the Quechua-speaking community have been victims of prejudice and do not receive basic education in their language.
Our brothers and sisters spend hours helping interested ones learn to read so they can comprehend basic Bible truths.
Their response to the good news in Bolivia is very positive.
But as we'll learn in the following report, Bible students frequently face opposition, often from those closest to them.
When an interested person begins to learn the truth from the Bible, at first the family is happy for them, and their friends are happy too.
But when the teachings of the Bible are in opposition to popular customs, those family members and friends may become their main source of opposition.
However, we have also seen many, many blessings from Jehovah.
For example, although the challenge is maybe great, we see Jehovah's hand working in the lives of each of these individuals because they make huge changes.
They take hold of Jehovah, they see him as their God, and they leave behind popular customs and start to make progress.
It is a beautiful blessing to see a Bible suit and get baptized filled with joy.
Lydia was a young woman who was very interested in spiritual things.
But, just like anyone that does not study the Bible, she had habits that were not pleasing to Jehovah.
She liked to socialize with her workmates, and at times she went out drinking with her friends.
Sometimes drinking a little too much.
However, despite that, she was very humble. You could see that she was very sincere. She appreciated good things.
After seeing these beautiful qualities in her, I said, Jehovah can make other good qualities growing her heart.
So we set the date to start the study.
We always try to be consistent and to not miss a study.
When a publisher does not miss the day and time for the study, the devil is not given the opportunity to disrupt it.
Some teachings Lydia accepted immediately, but others took more time.
Her manner of dress was not appropriate. She wore tight clothing and very short skirts.
How did we correct that? By showing her in the Bible that women should dress with modesty and soundness of mind.
It was not easy, but she did it.
After that, when she attended meetings, she looked like one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
When you plant a literal plant, you start to water it and it keeps growing.
While you're sleeping, you don't know how those changes happen.
It happens exactly the same way with a Bible student.
As time passed, Lydia expressed the desire to be baptized.
After that, she just kept making progress and started to serve as a regular pioneer.
Later, she was invited to serve in Bethel.
She has been serving in Bethel for 16 years.
I am one of the 70 persons that lend the truth from Edith.
Her example helped me to be considerate, insightful, and also to be consistent in making disciples.
Over the years, I have learned so much about disciples making, especially that this work is not ours.
When Bible students make progress, it is thanks to the blessing of Jehovah because he sees their hearts.
So we're not working for a man.
We're working for the most high God.
How encouraging to see ones like Lydia learn the truth and with God's help make the needed changes.
And what joy it continues to bring to her teacher, Edith, to see her serving Jehovah today.
As Edith says, when Bible students make progress, it is thanks to the blessing of Jehovah because he sees their heart.
Well, in our time together, we've circled the earth to bring you these experiences.
Did you notice any patterns for joyful disciple making?
Here are just four patterns that stood out to me.
We saw that the first step is to seek out all those with the right heart condition.
Our brothers in Nigeria, Fiji and Bolivia spread the good news despite the great distances, poor roads, and extreme weather.
And when the Bible and Joseph teamed up to overcome their disabilities and their example inspires us to do more.
Alex and Annie Doss learned sign language and moved more than 500 miles to serve where the need was greater.
Then we saw a second vital element in disciple making, the art of teaching.
We know, for example, that helping students to reason on the scriptures is very effective.
That was the case with Makareta.
Using the scriptures, she helped her student draw her own conclusions about the truth.
Benjamin and Joanna skillfully use the Bible with Jerry and Jane.
The power of the scriptures touched their hearts.
And when opposition came, they stood firm because they were convinced that they were learning the truth from God's inspired word.
A third element of disciple making involves helping our students to develop good study habits and a regular spiritual routine.
Edith and Lydia made it a goal never to miss a study.
Beatrice showed creativity developing projects like that big sheet of paper to help want to know Jehovah as a real person.
And fourth, in every experience, we saw that disciple making involves love, showing genuine love.
Alex and Annie took some room to the dentist because they love him.
What motivated clearest to study the Bible?
The joy radiated by Jehovah's people and the loving way we treat others.
Angeline gave up her stressful job and put Jehovah first. Why?
Because she observed Jehovah's witnesses who out of self-sacrificing love were motivated to preach the good news on hot days and rainy days.
And she especially noted the joy it brought them.
As you can see, the joy of Jehovah comes from sincere efforts to help people and Jehovah's blessing on those efforts.
When you see and hear your brothers and sisters heartfelt expressions, how does it make you feel?
Like Paul and Barnabas, we too may have challenges along the way, even some setbacks.
But nothing compares with the deep joy and happiness that results from helping others come to know and love Jehovah.
There are still honest hearted ones out there and they desperately need the truth.
It's experiences like the ones we've just listened to that help us to see that Jehovah is truly speeding up the work.
The next time you go out in service, picture yourself working side by side with your brothers and sisters around the world.
Just as in a search and rescue effort, we may feel we're not finding survivors in our area, but just one report.
Of a rescue victim being pulled out alive, spurs on all the volunteers to double their efforts.
Imagine the joy Jehovah feels when he looks down and sees us across the globe, working shoulder to shoulder in the greatest rescue mission of all time.
So keep calling out. Keep searching through the rubble of this dying system to find those crying out for help.
And may your joy abound as you do so.
How exciting to see the ways that our brothers and sisters are helping people to respond to the good news.
How can we assist those with whom we study the Bible to progress to dedication and baptism?
The following symposium discusses five areas in which our Bible students need our help.
Each speaker will introduce the one to follow.
Brother Mark Sanderson of the governing body will present the first talk entitled,
Help your Bible students to feed themselves spiritually.
Before our Lord Jesus returned to heaven, He gave what has been called the Great Commission.
He said, Go there for and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
No doubt you have those words in your mind as well.
Jesus was not satisfied that people should just come to know His teachings.
Jesus wanted people to come to love His teachings so that they would act on them, so that they would live by them,
and so that they would become His true disciples.
Now, why did Jesus want people to become His disciples and live by His teachings?
Well, it's because of something that we read here in John chapter 13 and verse 17.
Now, notice what Jesus said here.
If you know these things, happy you are if you do them.
What's the point?
Jesus was saying that people would find real happiness.
They would find the way of salvation.
They would have a relationship with His precious Heavenly Father,
if they would just come to know and do the things that He had taught.
Brothers and sisters, in this symposium, we are going to discuss five different things
that our Bible students need to do, that they need to progress in,
if they are going to become true disciples of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Let's talk about the first.
What is the most basic need that our Bible students have?
Well, it's what Jesus talked about here in Matthew chapter 5.
Let's read it together.
Matthew chapter 5 and verse 3.
Jesus said, happy are those conscious of their notice?
Spiritual need since the kingdom of the heavens belongs to them.
What's the point?
Well, Jesus showed that honest-hearted people have a spiritual need.
They have a need to come to know God and to have a relationship with Him
if they are really going to be happy.
Therefore, we need to teach our Bible students the very first thing
to see how they can fill that spiritual need by learning about their Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
As they fill that need, as they come to have that relationship with God,
that is the way to true happiness.
That means more than just feeding people information.
You know, there's a saying that's very familiar to most of us.
It says, give a man a fish, feed him for a day.
Teach him how to fish, feed him for a lifetime.
What's the point?
If we can teach our Bible students how to feed themselves spiritually,
then they have the way in front of them to a close relationship with God
to strong faith and becoming real disciples of Jesus Christ.
Well, now in the following demonstration that you'll see on video,
just notice how our Bible teacher helps her student to be able to do this.
Got it.
I find the answers in all that.
It's more than just the answers.
And with it, I'm all about study.
Which do you remember more from our studies?
The answers?
Or the things that touch your heart?
Yeah.
Like, when we talked about immorality, you knew the answer.
But you didn't seem totally convinced in here.
Let's try and find that answer.
But who ever practices sexual immorality is sinning against his own body?
Not sure why.
It made me think of Mum and Dad.
His constant cheating, actually.
Mum's humiliation, the divorce, or the misery.
I didn't want that.
I began to realise how right Jehovah is.
Because of what need to call meditation.
It's not about clearing your mind to find inner peace.
It's totally different.
It's asking how Jehovah feels about something.
And then what that means for me.
Now, what did you notice in the video?
It's true, Nita showed her Bible student the tools.
But what more did she do?
She also helped her to see that the answers were not the most important thing.
The most important thing was having the information come to touch her heart
so that she would be moved to act on what she learned.
Well, how can we help our students to be able to feed themselves spiritually?
Well, from the very beginning, once the study has been established,
we want to teach our students how to prepare each week for the study.
Now, this might be something very new to them.
So we're going to have to go through it step by step, showing them how to prepare.
It might also involve having to help them see how they can buy out time from their schedule
so that they can do what's necessary to prepare.
And then don't forget to commend them.
Because this might be very new for many of our students.
When they make the effort to prepare, make sure you give appropriate commendation.
But then, what's the next thing?
This is something that we sometimes forget, brothers.
It's the need to teach our students to pray before every single study session.
Now, why is this important?
Well, once again, we want our students not just to be thinking in terms of acquiring information
to not take an academic approach to their study,
but instead be always thinking about how what they're studying
connects them with their Heavenly Father, Jehovah,
so that they're building up a relationship with Him.
As Proverbs chapter 2 says,
if we call out to Jehovah for knowledge, for wisdom, for understanding,
Jehovah will help us. He'll help our student to gain that knowledge
that they need to build up a good relationship with Him.
And then, we want to do practical things.
We want to help our students to become familiar with the digital tools
that we have at our disposal for study.
That means helping them to install on their phone, on their tablet,
or whatever device they have, JW Library,
showing them how to use Watchtower Online Library
so that they can get the answers that they need to their questions.
Do you know, as a February of this year,
Watchtower Online Library is now available in more than 700 languages,
so virtually people all over the world have access to these wonderful tools.
Don't forget also to show them JW.org and JW Broadcasting
and show them how they can keep up to date
with these wonderful provisions from Jehovah.
Well now, we've shown them how to prepare for their lesson.
We've shown them how to use the online tools.
But what are the next progressive steps we want to take
so that they can feed themselves spiritually?
Well of course, as Psalm 1 tells us,
if we want to be truly happy and truly well fed spiritually,
we have to read God's law in an undertone day and night.
So we want to teach our students to get into that good habit
of reading God's Word of the Bible every day.
And then what about the next step?
We want our students also to be able to prepare for congregation meetings.
Now, if we've shown them how to use JW Library,
this is really easy, isn't it?
All we have to do is basically hit that meeting tab
and when we do, well all the information for our midweek meeting
and our weekend meeting is all there for us.
It will help our students to see that this program of spiritual feeding
is something they can access and something they can benefit from.
And what about research questions?
Now, brothers and sisters, if you have a good student,
they're going to be asking lots of questions.
And this is where it's sometimes difficult for us as teachers.
We would like to be able to just rush in,
open our Bible and answer every question that our student has.
But what's the better course?
Well, we want to be modest.
And instead of answering all the questions for them,
how much better it is to go back to those tools,
go back to the JW Library, go back to Watchtower Online Library,
and show the student how they can find the answers to their own Bible questions.
As we do that, we're helping them to build for the future.
Well, brothers, if we can do this,
if we can accomplish this goal of teaching our students how to feed themselves spiritually,
we are not just feeding them today.
We're not just handing them a fish as it were.
Instead, we're teaching them how to fish.
We're teaching them how to feed themselves spiritually for a lifetime.
Even more important, we're fulfilling the commission that Jesus gave us.
We are making real disciples of Christ Jesus,
who are well fed spiritually.
And as a result, they will not wither up or they will not blow away.
But instead, they will stand firm as true disciples of Christ Jesus.
Brother Ronald Curson, a helper with the Teaching Committee,
will now consider the next talk in this symposium,
help your Bible students to attend meetings.
It brings us great joy to help our Bible students feed themselves spiritually,
so they can continue to make spiritual progress and move ever closer to serving Jehovah.
The spiritual food that they digest at their weekly Bible study
or their own personal research is very beneficial.
It fills that spiritual need, that void in them.
And it's also very appetizing, much like eating an appetizer.
An appetizer is something that is served before serving the main course.
It's meant to wet the appetite before eating the main course.
Have you invited your Bible student to enjoy the main course of spiritual food at the Kingdom Hall?
Many have, and they have seen their students advance and really become happier.
But some have held back.
They feel that they don't want to rush their student into anything,
put too much pressure on them.
But this is exactly what your student needs.
Invite them as soon as possible.
Never hold back, because you could possibly be holding them back from making progress.
Think about how the meetings have helped you personally and your family.
And think about how the meetings will help your student.
King David knew that finding joy and true happiness only comes from drawing close to Jehovah
and worshipping him at his house.
Notice what he says at Psalm 65 and verse 4.
He says,
Happy is the one whom you choose and bring near to reside in your courtyards.
We will be satisfied with the goodness of your house, your holy temple.
Well, no doubt your Bible student is happy with their Bible study.
And what they're learning about Jehovah, they have deep gratitude.
Well, what is gratitude?
Gratitude means appreciating what kindness is shown to you.
But it also means showing appreciation and returning kindness.
Worshiping Jehovah is how we return kindness, show our appreciation and our gratitude.
And when we do this, Jehovah is happy, which makes us happy as well.
Notice in the following dramatization how Nida invites her Bible study Jade to attend meetings.
Yeah, assisted died in that attack.
It was really sad.
That's time and unexpected events.
Well, it's one of those cases.
What about when someone survives because they're at the meeting?
That's...
I don't get it.
Straight answer.
Does Jehovah protect witnesses or not?
Funny.
My meeting part tonight covers that point.
Why don't you come?
You're really pushing those meetings, aren't you?
What time?
Leave, I missed her part.
But it wasn't a total loss.
Nida had said, at the hall, everyone loves one another.
But until I felt it, I had no idea.
I told her I'd be back.
How did Jade feel when she attended her first meeting?
Well, she really enjoyed it.
She remembered what Nida told her that everyone at the kingdom hall loves one another.
And Jade had to admit, but until I felt it, I had no idea.
She could have read it.
She could have heard about it.
But until she was there and feeling the love, she wanted to come back.
Yes, attending meetings goes hand in hand with making spiritual progress.
As much as they love their home Bible study, it's like an appetizer.
It's one part of the spiritual feeding program that Jehovah provides at the kingdom hall
that main course provided through the faithful slave.
So during each Bible study, it would be good to explain to your student what has affected you,
what impacted you, to help make wise decisions, what encouraged you, share it with them,
and share a point that would help them.
Again, wet their appetite, peak their interest.
And when they come to the meeting, they will see true Christian love, unfailing love, in action.
They will see others trying to put into action and applying what they're learning at the meetings.
They will make true friends that will help support them and help them to progress spiritually.
Attending meetings can be a bit intimidating for some and cause some anxiety.
So it would be good to explain to them what they might expect when they attend.
And one of the best ways to do this is showing them a video entitled What Happens at a Kingdom Hall.
And this will really put them at ease and really help them to have less anxiety when they do finally come.
It would be good to also invite others to the Bible study so that when your student does finally make it to the meeting,
they will see many familiar faces and feel much more comfortable.
And let the friends at the congregation know that your student is coming to the meeting so that when they walk into the door,
they can come over, give them a warm welcome. Make them feel comfortable.
This is what Nita did for Jade and it worked so well. It helped her to progress.
Your student is a guest in Jehovah's house. Make them feel special.
Make them feel comfortable by offering practical help before the meeting as well as during the meeting.
So well in advance, what their appetite and what they will learn once they come to the meeting.
It's like showing them a menu of what they will enjoy with the main course at the meeting.
Offer to provide a ride to your students and have them sit with you at the meetings.
It would also be good to make sure that they have the publications that will be discussed at the meeting.
Either hard copy or have it downloaded on their device.
As we have discussed, attending meetings and enjoying the main course of spiritual food at the Kingdom Hall will help your student in so many ways.
It will make them feel happier, helps them to continue progressing so they can draw close to Jehovah.
The Apostle Paul gives us some more indications on what your student can enjoy.
Please, notice with me what he says at Colossians chapter 2 and verse 7.
He said in verse 6 that they should keep on walking but then in verse 7 that they should be rooted and built up in him, Jesus,
and being stabilized into faith just as you were taught and then overflowing with thanksgiving.
So their appreciation, their gratitude, they will want to go to the meetings and worship Jehovah.
So continue to find joy in helping your student feed themselves spiritually but also help them to appreciate attending meetings on a weekly basis.
Make it a way of life for them so they can enjoy everlasting life.
Brother Kenneth Cook, a member of the governing body will now consider the next part of this symposium entitled Help Your Bible Students to Avoid Bad Associations.
To begin, let's illustrate the importance of helping our Bible students to avoid bad association and will use the example of a prospector.
When a prospector finds something valuable deep underground, what does he do?
He must make certain that the weigh-in is secured and that it's well supported.
Otherwise, the treasure might be plundered or the weigh-in could collapse.
This is similar to what we must be aware of when it comes to helping our Bible students.
We work hard to reach the hearts of responsive ones, don't we?
When we do, with Jehovah's help, we continue assisting them to secure and protect their hearts.
This includes protecting their growing faith in Jehovah.
Otherwise, the devil will ruin what has been done and strip them of their faith.
If we are to help our students to progress, we must keep in mind why avoiding bad associations is so important.
We must also have in mind how we can help our students to do this.
Let's first look at why this is so important.
In order for your Bible students to gain Jehovah's friendship, they will likely need to make some changes in their choice of association.
Why? Because your students' progress is greatly affected by his or her choice of friends.
Proverbs 13 and verse 20 explains why this is true. Please go to that verse.
Proverbs 13-20, it reads,
The one walking with the wise will become wise, but the one who has dealings with the stupid will fare badly.
Why does a person's choice of associates matter? Because we cannot change what the verse says here.
The one who is walking or has dealings with the stupid will fare badly.
The fact is that our friends affect us in either a good way or a bad way, don't they?
In the Hebrew language, to have dealings with someone can mean to keep company with a person.
That is to be friends with a person.
If a Bible student seeks company with senseless people, he or she will not progress spiritually.
That is why it is so important to help our Bible students to avoid the problems that come with bad association.
On the other hand, from Proverbs 13-20, we learn that the one walking with the wise will become wise.
Here, the idea of walking with someone involves choosing to spend time with a person.
So help your Bible students to choose well.
Wholesome associates in the truth will help your students to break free from worldly thinking and unclean practices.
With this in mind, now that we have considered why we must help them, let's look some more at how we can do so.
In the following dramatization, note how Nita helps her Bible student to seek out and select good associates or friends.
Do not be misled, bad associations spoil useful habits.
Okay, but what's good associations?
Well, we have wholesome gatherings with our brothers and sisters from the congregation.
And we eat and talk, and some like to play musical instruments, and they'll do renditions of original songs.
And we have a really nice time.
Yeah, I don't do that.
It's not boring.
Sure, it's not.
Well, what do you do?
You wouldn't do that.
It's not exactly wholesome.
But you've got to have fun, right?
True.
And we do.
See for yourself.
I'm having some people over this weekend.
Why don't you come?
It wasn't the club.
But it was still fun.
Did you take note of how Nita helped her Bible student to seek good friends?
For one thing, she was empathetic, wasn't she?
Nita understood that her Bible student would need to see and experience some things for herself.
Also, she invited her student to a gathering of brothers and sisters,
and the impact of that positive experience was obvious.
Likewise, when it comes to how we can help our Bible students,
remember to be empathetic as well.
All of us naturally desire to have friends.
Keep that in mind as you strive to help your students.
It can be difficult for them to seek out good associates.
After all, this is all new for them.
Added to this, as your students accept and apply Bible standards in their lives,
some of their former friends will likely reject them.
You can prepare them for this by showing them what the Bible says, for example,
at 1 Peter 4, verse 4.
In that verse, we are made aware that people would be puzzled over the changes we make
in order to please Jehovah.
It also tells us that people might speak abusively of us and reject our changes.
This could even include members of one's own family,
and that fact might be difficult for your students to accept.
How can you help your students at a time like that by giving them a real choice?
Along with helping them to draw close to Jehovah,
help your students to replace bad associations with good ones.
Be a friend to your students.
Also, introduce them to others in the congregation.
Also, whenever possible, when the study is over,
why not stay for a while and talk with them, spend some time,
and really get to know them?
Call your student whenever he or she is sick.
Show personal interest.
Sit with them at the meetings and invite others to sit in on the study with you.
If you are interested in the video, like Nita,
include your student in upbuilding social activities.
One formerly unbelieving husband, who is now an elder,
recalls how a brother helped him.
He said that the brother took a day off from work
just to watch a ball game with him,
and he thought to himself,
he's normal.
It's also important to help your Bible student understand
that you are limited to morally debased people.
The Bible tells us that the whole world,
the whole world, is lying in the power of the wicked one.
So then kindly help your students to see
that we must also avoid association
with those who may appear to be morally clean,
but who lack faith in the true God, Jehovah.
We see why we must help and how we can help our Bible students
to avoid bad associations and accept good ones.
Remember, we must help them to secure the way into their heart
and protect their faith.
As your students do this by avoiding bad associations,
they will no doubt gain many lifelong friends, including you.
And whether your student is a family member
or someone you meet in the ministry,
you will both have precious memories
and joy that will last forever.
Brother Anthony Morris, a member of the governing body,
will now consider the next talk of this symposium,
help your Bible students to overcome unclean habits.
In this part of our symposium,
we are addressing why and how
to help our Bible students overcome unclean habits.
Now, first of all, why overcome unclean habits?
As teachers, we need to reach the heart of those we study
with to understand the God we worship expects this to stop.
Let me show you a verse that you're familiar with many of you
and Peter's letter, first Peter chapter one,
and we could use these thoughts here to endeavor
to reach the heart of those we're studying with with why
this unclean habit must stop.
Let's read verse 14 through 16,
as obedient children stop being molded
by the desires you formerly had in your ignorance,
but like the holy one who called you,
become holy yourselves in all your conduct.
For it is written, you must be holy because I am holy.
So it's very clear here there are things
that are Bible studies practiced before these unclean habits
in their ignorance, before they knew Jehovah,
before they knew his requirements,
they need to understand he is the holy one,
and they have to have their conduct line up
with the holy one that we worship.
And this is not a suggestion as quoting the scripture here
in verse 16, it's a must.
They must be holy because Jehovah is holy.
Now in the following dramatization,
note how Nita helps her Bible student to overcome
an unclean habit.
Nita and I talked about her.
Part of me felt a bit scared,
part a bit crazy,
me knocking on doors,
but I knew this was the right thing to do.
A minister should also be free
from all non-medical use of addictive or mind-altering substances.
Non-medical,
but taking something when I'm feeling a little stressed,
like maybe I don't know,
a little weed?
That's okay, right?
And it's for the stress.
I guess I didn't quite understand what medical men...
So we see you during the week.
Thank you, Jody.
Thanks.
We'll be back.
You can guess what our next few studies were about.
And you should continue to be made new
in your dominant mental attitude.
Knowing it was wrong was easy,
figuring out how to cope without it
wasn't beating it
felt impossible.
Deserve Jehovah felt amazing.
Next, let's discuss how to help.
We see how our sister needed
to help her Bible student
when she became aware of that unclean habit.
But there's some nice thoughts
as to how to help our Bible students overcome unclean habits.
Now, we want to be candid
and clear from the scriptures,
but always remember we need to be warm
and we need to be
tactful with them.
These habits have a grip on them
and we need to display not
a judgmental attitude, but patience
and really just imitating Jehovah
helping them to apply Bible counsel.
Now, it's important for the teacher to understand
what we're going to share with you next.
And then if you have it clear,
you're going to be able to impart it
to your Bible student.
Let's read a familiar scripture
in Ephesians chapter 4.
And it's important to understand
what we read here
as related to helping them overcome
unclean habits that go contrary
to Bible principles.
Now, notice in Ephesians chapter 4
verse 22, 23 and 24.
You were taught to put away the old personality
that conforms to your former course of conduct
and that has been corrupted
according to it's that's the old personality
deceptive desires.
And you should continue to be made new
in your dominant mental attitude
and should put on the new personality
that was created according to God's will
in true righteousness and loyalty.
So we have to understand this clearly
and then we need to teach our students
there's the old personality.
Those of us that came in the truth
had old personalities.
We know exactly what Paul's writing
to the Ephesians about.
And that's a former course of conduct
that is no longer acceptable.
But the key to being able to put on the new personality
and put away the old one
is found in verse 23
be made new in your dominant mental attitude.
So what's that mean?
That means your Bible students
thinking has to change.
The thinking has to change
into this new personality
thinking that's guided and directed by Jehovah
and His Word.
Now to illustrate what I mean by that
tell you a personal experience
with a Bible study
that I had many years ago
and really appreciate it
how Jehovah helped him.
Now when I studied with him,
he was 70, early 70s
and he had smoked cigarettes
since he was eight years old.
That's phenomenal.
I smoked before I became
one of Jehovah's Witnesses with decades?
No.
So smoking had a grip on him
that old personality
that was very discouraging
and difficult for him.
However, he was making progress,
coming to meetings.
And this one example
that had one of his life
will illustrate the point
we're making here.
So I'm working in a department
there at the convention
and it's near the lobby area.
And I noticed my Bible study,
he heads out and programs ongoing,
heads out the door
and out of personal interest,
not to police him,
I want to go see,
is he okay?
So he's about a block
down from the lobby
of the convention center
and you know what?
Smoking a cigarette.
So he notices me come up
behind him and it just hits him.
And he's contrived.
The shame is all in his face.
And he throws that cigarette
down, stops it with a shoe.
So when I get close to him,
he says, I've been asking Jehovah,
forgive me, forgive me.
This happens.
I always ask him to forgive me.
And I said, well, that's commendable.
That's so important.
I know you loved Jehovah.
However, here's what you need to learn.
See, you need to approach Jehovah
before and supplicate him
before you take that cigarette.
And that's what our Bible students need to help.
It's important that they have to
suffocate Jehovah before that unclean habit
overwhelms them.
And I'm happy to say he did.
Turn his back on that.
I've been supplicated Jehovah.
And boy, imagine smoking all those decades
and died a faithful servant of Jehovah God.
So help your Bible students
and keep that in mind.
They have to change their thinking.
And that's our responsibility to make that clear to them.
Now teach them, too,
by means of practical assistance.
Be a dear friend for them.
Stay there for them.
When they need help with something.
And just love them.
Don't be judgmental.
Be supportive.
And help them to overcome these unclean habits.
And very important,
teach them, do not give up.
Jehovah loves you.
He wants you to rejoice in the progress you're making.
He loves you.
And what's your experience
when they become a dedicated witness
or a fellow servant of God,
you'll have a friend forever.
Now, next on our symposium,
the final talk,
Brother Jeffrey Jackson,
remember the governing body is going to consider the talk,
help your Bible students to develop
a personal relationship with Jehovah.
How does a father feel
when he receives an unexpected gift from his child?
Of course, his heart is warmed.
Why?
Because he sees this as an expression
of the child's love for him.
Well, in a similar way,
our loving Heavenly Father, Jehovah,
does not want to force us to serve him.
He's interested in our motives.
And he wants us to serve him out of love.
Why?
Because Jehovah realizes that love has power.
It gives us the power to make changes in our life.
And also, it helps us to be able to overcome temptations
and opposition.
But that presents a challenge for us
when we're conducting Bible studies.
How so?
Well, how can we develop within the hearts of the Bible students
a love for Jehovah without forcing them
or trying to put pressure on them?
Well, that's something that we need to think about.
During these talks, we've certainly enjoyed the series
of videos, haven't we,
that have helped us to see how Jade
has made progress with her Bible study
and how Nita has helped her all along.
When we think about this,
we see that Jade has made good progress.
And she's up to a point now
where she has a love for Jehovah.
In this final video,
let's watch how Jade faces a very difficult problem
and we'll see how her love for Jehovah
helps us to overcome this problem.
But Mom, listen.
No, Jade. You listen.
It'll lift just another of your favors.
It's time to move on, Love.
The holidays are our time.
It's all I get from you.
Promise me you'll be here.
I really don't want to disappoint her.
I can't disappoint Jehovah.
Of course.
You love them both.
Don't you think you can help you?
Talk to him.
I spent a long time pouring out my heart to him.
And I remembered something from one of the Psalms.
I will walk in your truth.
Unify my heart to fear your name.
Remember someone wants claiming to be all about the promises?
Have you made any good ones lately?
Absolutely.
Well, that certainly was a difficult problem, wasn't it?
Her mother wanting to force her to join her in a worldly holiday.
But what helped Jade?
As she said, it's true she loves her mother.
But she didn't want to disappoint Jehovah.
And not as neither didn't try to go through all the pros and cons with her.
She realized that Jade had a love for Jehovah.
And she just simply said, ask him for help.
And Jehovah did help her.
So how can we make sure that our Bible students come to a similar point in their life
where they love Jehovah?
Well, we find some help with regard to that question.
If we turn to the first book of John, so please turn with me to 1 John chapter 4.
And we're going to read verse 8.
Whoever does not love has not come to know God because God is love.
What is this telling us?
You see, basically it is saying if our Bible student doesn't love God,
that's because they haven't really come to know God yet.
And if we turn the page to verse 19, there's a secondary point as mentioned.
It says, we love because He first loved us.
What does this highlight?
Well, for our Bible student to love Jehovah, they need to come to know Him.
But also, they need to see His love in their lives.
So that puts a responsibility on us to help them to identify
Jehovah's love and then have this love for Jehovah building their hearts.
We can do that by asking questions such as, how have you seen Jehovah's love in your life?
Well, what does this Bible account?
Teachers about Jehovah's love.
In other words, although we are interested in explaining what Jehovah has done
by highlighting what he does, how he does it, and when he does it,
we would never want to forget the vital question, why does he do something?
The answer is because of his love, and we help our Bible student to see that.
You see, Jehovah's power enables him to do things.
His wisdom helps him and guides him along with justice to do things the right way.
But what is it that motivates Jehovah?
It's his love, isn't it?
And asking the question, why Jehovah does things helps to highlight that point?
So as we're teaching our Bible students, we need them to see that Jehovah really does love them,
and he wants them to succeed in their life.
Also, we could perhaps share with them some of the times that we personally have experienced Jehovah's love,
perhaps in the way that Jehovah has answered our prayers.
But in connection with this, there's another scripture that can help us.
If you turn with me, please, to the book of Isaiah.
Isaiah chapter 48, and we're going to look at verses 17 and 18.
Isaiah 48, 17 and 18.
This is what Jehovah says, your repurchaser, the Holy One of Israel.
I, Jehovah, am your God, the one teaching you to benefit yourself, the one guiding you in the way you should walk.
If only you would pay attention to my commandments, then your peace would become just like a river
and your righteousness by the waves of the sea.
Do you see the point that's being made here?
We need to help the Bible student to understand that Jehovah really wants the best for them,
and he's helping and guiding them in the way that they should go.
And the end result, we notice there in verse 18, is that peace and righteousness will be their reward.
Well, this truly is something that can help the Bible student.
In fact, when they start to face the changes that they need to make in life,
if they have this love for Jehovah, they won't just view it as something they have to do in order to attain everlasting life.
No, they'll view these things as opportunities for them to prove their love of Jehovah.
Well, what is this symposium, Sean?
As we've listened to the various talks and watched the videos,
it's helped us to see various ways that we can help our Bible students to make progress.
We realize that conducting a Bible study and helping someone to become a disciple
is not just a matter of reading certain paragraphs in a book or using certain techniques.
A lot more is involved.
What else?
Remember, the Apostle Paul was an experienced disciple maker.
And let's turn our Bibles to the first book of Thessalonians.
And we'll notice here under inspiration, the Apostle Paul tells us what else is involved.
Verse Thessalonians chapter 2, and we're going to read verses 7 and 8.
On the contrary, we became gentle in your midst,
as when a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children.
So having tender affection for you, we were determined to impart to you not only the good news of God,
but also our very selves because you became so beloved to us.
Yes, we really need to care for these ones.
We need to nurture them, help them with the problems and obstacles they face along the way.
And yes, we need to become their friends.
Well, becoming a disciple maker is a challenging work. There's a lot involved with it.
But don't feel overwhelmed. You can do it with your harvest help and the help of Jesus Christ.
Remember when Jesus gave us a commission to go and make disciples, what else did He say?
Look, I am with you.
Yes, with Jehovah's help and with the help of Jesus, we can experience a wonderful joy.
What is that joy? The joy of seeing a new disciple learn to love Jehovah.
Thank you, brothers, for helping us to become more effective Bible teachers.
Soon, we will enjoy part one of our Bible drama based on the account of Nehemiah.
To wet our appetite, let us stand and sing song number 110 entitled The Joy of Jehovah.
After the song, you may remain standing for some announcements, that song number 110.